Tom Kurzeka is a product designer crafting experiences for web, iOS, & Android. His design perspective has three pillars: empathy, utility, & delight.

Tom is an endlessly curious, critical thinker who thrives in ambiguity. With experience on both small startup teams and large cross-functional squads, he adapts his design process to address the challenges, constraints, and business needs at hand. 

Tom’s favorite part of the design process is creating—wireframe iterations, visual design explorations, rapid prototyping, and exploring interaction patterns. His happy place is the intersection of brand identity, interaction design, and visual polish.

He is an adept moderator and research planner, having conducted everything from guerrilla user research, in-house usability studies, and remote moderated sessions with tools like UserTesting.com.

Tom has helped create, maintain, and grow design systems and has experience adapting original ideas to work within an existing design system. 

In his free time, Tom reads deeply about artificial intelligence, machine learning, and big data, including the works of Melanie Mitchell, Douglas Hofstader, and Shoshana Zubinoff. 

He is familiar with generative AI tools like Chat GPT, Dall-E, Midjourney, and Adobe Firefly. In 2022, I completed multiple courses in Python to better understand these emerging technologies.


Tom was a Senior Product Designer at Vista from April 2022 through June 2023

Pilot experiences aimed at helping small business owners market themselves, manage their brands, and discover new print and digital products.
		
Worked alongside a broad cross-functional team for six months to A/B test a brand new site experience to help small business customers find and discover new products and digital services. 
		
Helped pilot a Brand Kit experience for small business customers. The brand kit enabled small business owners to manage their brand identity including color palettes, fonts, and logos. Collecting this information enabled us to recommend a suite of pre-designed, on-brand products for our customers.
		
A/B tested an Onboarding flow that collected business and brand identity, then generated a curated landing page of recommended products based on business maturity, industry, and goals.
		
Conducted blue sky explorations uniting the efforts of distributed design pods to envision a cohesive future-state customer journey.


I'm a Senior Product Designer on the Growth Team at VistaPrint.

Embracing a culture of experimentation, I pilot experiences aimed at empowering small business owners to market themselves and grow.

Some of my work includes onboarding and personalization wizards, brand management, and blue sky customer journey explorations.

Previously, I was the first design hire at a startup called The Dyrt.

After cutting my teeth solo for a year, a senior designer joined the team. The two of us advocated for and established an end-to-end design process. 

We grew our design team of two into a team of eight, created a cross-platform design system, helped launch a subscription service, and reached a #1 rank in the App and Play Stores.

After hours I explore code, music & prose.

I'm a West coast based designer & multidisciplinary creative.

You're as likely to find me geeking out over typefaces, gradients, and poster design as you are to see me reading about data visualization, teaching myself Python, or tinkering in Webflow.

I'm an avid reader of all topics, though my first love is fiction. I've been a musician most of my life and enjoy studying guitar and jamming with like-minded folks. And I'm a frequent feature at the local parks with my dog, Bird. 


Introduction:

Imagine two campgrounds on either side of a valley...

Both have views overlooking the river, level tent sites, and a good balance of sun & shade. You know one of them has cell phone service. You're unsure about the other.

Which campground will you choose?

The Problems:

1. Campers want to know if they should expect cell phone coverage wherever they go camping.

2. Existing cell phone data is structured as Available or Unavailable and lacks a qualitative scale.

3. Better cell phone coverage data is discussed in The Dyrt's forums & Facebook groups and is a frequent topic of support requests.

Requirements:

1. Measure connection speed
If a user opens the app while at a campground, we have the ability to determine if they are at or near a campground in our database & use their device to measure the network connection speed at that location.

2. Gather data
When any user opens any app, opportunity is created. We can empower our community to contribute reliable campground information by asking pertinent questions while they're on-site.

Ideate:
User Flows
Sketching is my go-to at this stage. As we refined our design system it became easier to imagine existing components filling in the lines.

As we worked through the cell coverage problem, we could no longer ignore the legacy review flow. I explored connecting the speed test experience to an updated review flow.

Amenities vs. Reviews: 

The Dyrt has a few different flows for users to submit information and media about a campground.

Included in those flows are the amenities questions: twenty-six campground attributes for which a user can tell us:
1. yes
2. no  
3. unknown

Pattern Audit:
The Field Report flow is the third wizard experience in the app, including the Add Review and Trip Planner flows. The navigation controls were inconsistent among the existing two. It was time to herd some cats before introducing a third flow.

The senior product designer and I audited the placement of all the next, back, >, cancel, close and close-x buttons in the native app. We established guidelines for the placement of the controls.

Motion & Delight
Once we concluded that we would not bundle the field report with the add review flow, I started exploring how we might ask all twenty-six amenities questions.

Bringing it all together
I collaborated with our staff illustrator in the higher levels of fidelity.

It was a great experience thinking about how to use an element of the illustration to communicate system status and what an "album cover" for this experience might be.

Implement & Measure
Live! May 2021
We released field reports just in time for camping season.

In 60 days we achieved 10% of the total amenity updates we'd ever received in company history.


In the six months since launching Field Reports we've received 13K reports, each with a network performance metric, and an average of 7 amenities data points.

Reflections: Did we solve the problem?
We are moving in the right direction. All campgrounds on The Dyrt have an Available or Unavailable value for each of the four major cell phone networks. A growing number of campgrounds show a qualifier of Poor, Fair or Good for each network.



Risk management
The first idea we have might be the best one, but that's not always the case.

Testing helps diminish business risk. I think we should have tested the Field Reports flow, especially the amenities question interaction.

Editing Answers
In a later sprint focused on the Add a Campground flow–where all amenities questions are also asked–I incorporated a list view that helped users review & edit their answers to this set of questions.


Project 1 - Building inventory on The Dyrt

Over the course of two months, I redesigned the The Dyrt’s Manager Portal, a B2B property, inventory, and bookings management system.

Redesign Goals
Make the Manager Portal flexible enough to support three property types:

1. Residential property owners allowing overnight stays in large 
backyards or other acreage
2. Small business campgrounds with fewer than 20 campsites
3. RV Parks with 100 or more campsites


Focal Points
The redesign had three focal points which we hypothesized would provide the flexibility for the broad customer success we were aiming for,

1. Site groups & sites
2. Dynamic pricing rules
3. Calendar integration


Site Groups & Sites
Unlike other booking platforms, campgrounds prove uniquely challenging since each campground can contain multiple campsites.

One campsite can have an equivalent amount of detail as a single Airbnb property.

Site Groups were proposed as a flexible solution for this complexity. Site Groups empower users to create batches of sites with similar properties.

Dynamic Pricing
Pricing contributes to the user overhead we were trying to reduce.

Site pricing based on location or amenities, premium pricing for holidays, custom weekend rates, and discounts for shoulder seasons were requested by campground managers.

The product team suggested dynamic pricing rules as a solution.

I collaborated with our Lead Backend Engineer to design a UI for a complex API pricing model.

Pricing rules exist at the Site Group level and apply to all sites in a group. For maximum flexibility, we also included a price override for individual sites.

Calendar Integration
Saavy property owners are listing their properties on multiple booking platforms. In order to keep accurate, up-to-date availability, they need to export & import .ics URLS to and from each platform.

Managers needed to be able to differentiate events from external platforms vs. The Dyrt, as well as create blocks of unavaiability on The Dyrt.

The Big Lift
The majority of user effort in this experience is in the onboarding flow. After the initial set up, the day to day management of booking requests occurs on just a few screens.

Creating user flows has been immensely helpful in aligning not only with engineers but also multiple stakeholders looking for a bird's eye view of work in progress.

Given the lenght of our onboarding experience, I wanted to make sure the Dashboard entry point tracked and communicated a user's progress if they abandoned the flow mid-way through.

Instant Book KPI
The success of this redesign was to be measured by how many managers set up their property for Instant Book. This required the most granular set up process and calendar integration.

Booking type was promoted on the Dashboard (see above) and was also accessible via the portal Settings menu.

Moving from Request to Book to Instant Book requires managers to input Site level details and provide up-to-date availability for each site at their campground.

Small Team Moving Fast
Implementation of the above workflows started while I continued working on the records & edit views of groups, sites, and pricing rules.

I did not get to see these designs go live, but the Manager Portal was a complex challenge.